
Last updated March 07, 2023
how to get police clearance online l Moneymax
If you're a fresh graduate who's just been hired or a new hire who just resigned from your old job, you need to secure a police clearance.

Thankfully, the Philippine National Police (PNP) offers a faster and more convenient way for Filipinos to secure this document. With an online application, you won't have to line up at the police station for more than an hour.

Keep reading to learn how to get police clearance online in the Philippines without any hassle.

What is Police Clearance?
The National Police Clearance is a document proving that the holder has no criminal or derogatory record based on the PNP database.

Police clearance is usually one of the requirements that job candidates must submit to their new employer. It's also accepted as a valid ID in the Philippines in some transactions, such as applications for national ID, NBI clearance, and credit cards.

However, the police clearance is not honored as a valid ID for COMELEC voter's registration and DFA passport application/renewal.

Police Clearance Requirements in the Philippines in 2023
How to get police clearance online and what are the requirements for police clearance this 2023? The PNP clearance requirements include two valid IDs. For police clearance online application, the valid IDs should meet the following criteria:

Not expired
Original (not photocopied)
Bears the applicant's complete name, clear photo, and signature
Present any two valid IDs when you apply for police clearance. In case you don't have one, you can present a Barangay Residency Certification.

Here are some of the accepted valid IDs. For the full list, visit the National Police Clearance website.

Alien Certificate of Registration
GSIS UMID
LTO driver's license
IBP ID
OFW ID
Passport
PhilHealth ID
Philippine Identification (Phil ID or national ID)
PNP ID
Postal ID
PRC license
School ID with registration form
Senior citizen ID
SSS ID/UMID
TIN ID
Voter's ID
If you have only one valid ID, the PNP will accept it as long as you can present a certified true copy of your birth certificate (with its original official receipt). Check out this birth certificate application guide.

How to Get Police Clearance Online
how to get police clearance online - national police clearance system
The PNP has an online system for processing police clearance in the Philippines. Launched in August 2018, the National Police Clearance System (NPCS) is an online service that enables Filipinos nationwide to get a police clearance in less than 10 minutes. You're still required to make a personal appearance at a police station, though, so they can capture your biometrics.

Before this online system was implemented, a walk-in police clearance application usually took 30 minutes to an hour. This web-based system speeds up the process of verifying an applicant's criminal records and biometric data, as the NPCS is connected to the PNP database.

So if you need to apply for a police clearance, use the police clearance online appointment system to take advantage of its convenience and efficiency. Here's how to get a police clearance online.

Step 1: Register for an Account via the National Police Clearance System
how to get police clearance online - register for an online account
To get your police clearance online registration started, visit the NCPS website (pnpclearance.ph).[1] For first-time applicants, click the Register button. Read the Terms and Conditions and check all the boxes to agree. Click the Next button to continue. When you reach the last page, click the I Agree button.

Provide the required information in the New Applicant Registration box. Make sure to provide an active email address. Then check the Terms and Conditions box and click the Register button.

You'll receive a confirmation message from the NPCS through email. Check your inbox or spam folder for a message with a link for verifying your online NPCS account. Click on the verification link. This action will take you to the log-in page of the NPCS website.

Step 2: Set an Online Appointment
Sign in to your online account by entering your registered email address and password. Click the Sign In button to continue.

Before setting an appointment for your police clearance application, you must edit your profile first. Click the Edit Profile button and fill out the online form with the necessary details. When you're done, click the Save Profile button.

To set an appointment, click the Clearance Application button and select the nearest police station where you'll get a police clearance. The list of available schedules will appear. Choose your preferred date and time (AM or PM). Then click Next.

Click the Land Bank of the Philippines button and then Save Appointment.

The police clearance online payment details will be displayed. Take note of the reference number issued by the system. You'll use the number for the police clearance fee payment.

Step 3: Pay for the Police Clearance Fee
Now that you have your reference number for your police clearance, you can now proceed to payment.

👉 How to Pay for Police Clearance via Landbank
Click the Pay to LANDBANK button, which will take you to the LBP ePayment Portal.[2] You'll then pay online through this portal using your account with LANDBANK, GCash, or BancNet.

👉 How to Pay for Police Clearance via GCash
For police clearance payments using GCash, just enter your GCash account number on the LBP ePayment portal.  Afterward, your transaction details and payment summary will be shown. This process is the same for LANDBANK and BancNet payment options.

👉 How to Pay Police Clearance via 7-Eleven
If you don't have a GCash or bank account, you can still pay for your police clearance via 7-11. To do so, just follow these steps:

Select Cash Payment on the LBP ePayment Portal and click Submit. For this payment option, the police clearance price would be ₱180 (₱150 for the police clearance + ₱30 convenience fee).
Select 7-Eleven as your payment channel, review the payment details, and click Proceed.
Copy and save your payment reference number and pay for it via 7-Eleven's CLiQQ mobile app. Take note that you need a CLiQQ account to proceed.
Select Government from the list of billers.
Choose MYEGPH from the list of options, then enter your payment reference number, mobile number, and total amount.
Click Confirm and head to the nearest 7-Eleven branch to pay for your police clearance by presenting the bar code on your CLiQQ app.
Step 4: Go to Your Selected Police Station
On your scheduled appointment, bring two valid IDs, your reference number, and the official receipt of your police clearance payment and present them to the police station. You'll then undergo biometrics (picture, fingerprints, and digital signature) capture. 
Your application will go through a verification process, during which the police officer will check your biometrics and criminal records on the PNP database. This process won't take long. Wait for your name to be called for the release of your police clearance.

However, if your application got a hit, you'll have to undergo another verification process. Once it's settled, you can claim your police clearance.

How to Get Police Clearance Online: FAQs
1. How long is the police clearance validity?
The validity of police clearance is six months. Each clearance bears a unique QR code that ensures its authenticity.

2. How much is the police clearance fee?
Police clearance is ₱150 plus a ₱10 transaction fee (for a total of ₱160).

3. Is there a dress code? 
Yes, there's a dress code for police clearance applications. Wear proper attire such as polo shirts and closed shoes—don't show up at the police station in sleeveless tops, flip-flops, and shorts. 


 

4. How to renew my police clearance?
There's no police clearance renewal in the Philippines. Once the police clearance validity period expires (after six months from release), you have to apply for a new police clearance through the NPCS. Just follow the same steps above.

5. How to verify police clearance online?
how to get police clearance online - verify clearance
If you wish to verify the authenticity of a police clearance, you can check through the NPCS as well. On the home page, scroll down and you'll see the section Verify Your Clearance.

Type in the surname on the police clearance as well as the clearance number. Tick the reCAPTCHA box and then click on Verify.

Final Thoughts
The police clearance application process is nowadays a lot more efficient than before. Transactions are smoother and faster because of the new online application system. As long as you follow these simple steps on how to get your police clearance online, you can get your documents quickly and easily.

Apply for a personal loan through Moneymax
