Moneymax-Logo
Car Insurance
Credit Cards
Loans
Insurance
Articles
About Us
Share on facebook
Share on linkedin
Share on twitter
Share on email
Line
Blog
Government Services
Government Transactions
Pag-IBIG Online Registration: How to Become a Member Without the Hassle
Venus Zoleta
VENUS ZOLETA
Last updated February 06, 2023
Pag-IBIG Online Registration 2023 | Moneymax
For fresh college graduates and first-time employees, membership in the Pag-IBIG Fund (as well as PhilHealth and SSS) is like a rite of passage into adulthood. It marks your beginning as a full-fledged career professional.

Fortunately, you can now finish most government transactions, like Pag-IBIG membership registration, online. That means there’s no need to travel to the nearest Pag-IBIG office and wait in line to register as a member.

It takes only a few minutes and several clicks to enroll as a Pag-IBIG member—a lot faster and more convenient than manual registration. To make the process even easier, here's a simple guide to Pag-IBIG online registration this 2023.

What is Pag-IBIG Online Registration?
Pag-IBIG online registration refers to the process of enrolling yourself as a Pag-IBIG Fund member through the Pag-IBIG website. It involves submitting your information, generating your Member’s Data Form (MDF), and getting your Pag-IBIG Membership ID (MID) Number through its Online Membership Registration facility.

Note that the Pag-IBIG online registration system is intended only for those enrolling as new members.

Who Should Register for Pag-IBIG Membership?
pag-ibig online registration 2023 - who should register

Pag-IBIG membership may be mandatory or voluntary, depending on the person's source of income.

Mandatory Pag-IBIG Membership
Mandatory coverage under the Pag-IBIG Fund means membership is required for the following people:

Employees in the private sector (permanent, temporary, or provisional status) up to 60 years old
Government employees with GSIS coverage, regardless of appointment status
Self-employed individuals up to 60 years old earning at least ₱1,000 a month
Kasambahays (e.g., household helpers, cooks, drivers, gardeners, etc.) with a monthly salary of at least ₱1,000
Land-based and sea-based OFWs
Filipinos employed by foreign-based employers, whether deployed locally or abroad
Uniformed personnel (Philippine National Police, Armed Forces of the Philippines, Bureau of Fire Protection, etc.)
Expats up to 60 years old who are compulsorily covered by the SSS
If you don't belong to any groups that qualify for mandatory Pag-IBIG membership, you can still apply as a voluntary member.

Voluntary Pag-IBIG Membership
Registration with the Pag-IBIG Fund is optional for the following individuals aged 18 to 65:

Non-working spouse of registered Pag-IBIG members
Filipino employees of a foreign government or international organization
Employees of employers with a waiver or suspension of coverage by the Pag-IBIG Fund
Religious group leaders and members
Pensioners, investors, and other individuals with passive income or allowances
Public officials and employees without GSIS coverage (e.g., barangay officials, Sangguniang Kabataan members, etc.)
Apply for a personal loan through Moneymax

Pag-IBIG Membership Benefits
It’s more than just a requirement for a new job—there are several good reasons to enroll as a Pag-IBIG Fund member. Pag-IBIG benefits help members meet their short-term and long-term financial needs.

When you become a Pag-IBIG member, you can do the following:

Regularly save money for retirement and other financial goals through the Pag-IBIG Regular Savings Program and MP2 Program
Borrow funds for different purposes through its loans (Pag-IBIG housing loan, multi-purpose loan, and calamity loan) with low interest rates and long repayment terms
Enjoy discounts, rewards, and other perks at partner establishments through the Pag-IBIG Loyalty Card Plus
Pag-IBIG Online Registration 2023: How to Register Through Virtual Pag-IBIG
Pag-IBIG online registration in 2023 is a quick and straightforward process. Here’s how you can access the Pag-IBIG online registration website on your smartphone, laptop, computer, or tablet.

pag-ibig online registration 2023 - how to register

Go to the Pag-IBIG Fund website,[1] hover your mouse over the E-Services tab on the menu, and click on Membership Registration. It will take you to the Online Membership Registration page.
Alternatively, you can access the Pag-IBIG online registration website by going to the Virtual Pag-IBIG site[2] and clicking Be a Member. Click Continue to proceed to the Online Membership Registration page.  
You can also proceed directly to the page at www.pagibigfundservices.com/PubReg/Starter_Page.aspx.
If you don’t have a Pag-IBIG membership yet, just follow these Pag-IBIG online application steps: 

Fill out the online form by entering your last name, first name, middle name (tick the box if there’s no middle name), and date of birth (following the mm/dd/yy format).
Input the CAPTCHA code and click the Submit button.
Complete the online membership registration form by supplying your personal details, address, and contact information. You’ll also need to provide your list of heirs (optional), member category, and employment history (if applicable).
After completing the Pag-IBIG membership online form, click the Submit Registration button.
The Successful Registration page will appear. Take note of your Registration Tracking Number. Click the Print MDF button to print or save your enrollment form.
After two working days, you can verify your permanent Pag-IBIG ID number by visiting the Pag-IBIG Membership ID (MID) Number Inquiry[3] page. After which, employed members should submit it to their employer as part of the Pag-IBIG online registration for new employees.
Self-employed members can already use the Registration Tracking Number to pay their Pag-IBIG contributions.

If you don't have an internet connection at home, you can still visit a Pag-IBIG branch and ask an employee to assist you with how to apply with Pag-IBIG online.


 

Related article: The Complete Guide to Claiming Your Pag-IBIG Contributions

How to Verify Your Pag-IBIG MID Number
pag-ibig online registration 2023 - how to verify pag-ibig MID number

You can verify your Pag-IBIG number by going to the Virtual Pag-IBIG website. Click on Be a Member and then Verify MID No. Enter your Registration Tracking Number, last name, and date of birth, and then click Submit. It will display your Pag-IBIG MID number.

You can also opt for the following methods:

👉 Via Lingkod Pag-IBIG Chat
pag-ibig online registration 2023 - lingkod pag-ibig

Click the Lingkod Pag-IBIG chat box on the lower right portion of the Virtual Pag-IBIG website. Fill out the online form and select Member ID Number under What is your concern? Click Submit and wait for a representative to assist you.

👉 Via SMS
Text IDSTAT<space>[RTN]<space>[Birth date in MM/DD/YYYY format] and send to 0917-888-4363 (Globe) or 0918-898-4363 (Smart).

👉 Via Pag-IBIG Hotline
Get your MID number by calling the Pag-IBIG Hotline at 8-PAG-IBIG (8724-4244). You'll be required to answer three security questions correctly (for identity verification purposes) before you receive your Pag-IBIG number.

👉 Via Email
Use Pag-IBIG MID Number as your subject line, and make sure to include your full name, date of birth, and mother’s maiden name in the body of your email. Attach a photo of your valid ID and send your email to contactus@pagibigfund.gov.ph.

Alternatively, provide the same information through the Pag-IBIG Fund Contact Us page.[4] Fill out the online form and select ID Card/Number from the options. Copy the code in the box, and then click Send.  

👉 Via In-Branch Inquiry
If none of the two methods above work, go to the nearest Pag-IBIG branch to request your MID number. Remember to bring a valid ID, which you'll present to the staff to prove your identity.

👉 Via Facebook
Go to the official Facebook page of Pag-IBIG Fund[5] and click the Message button. State your inquiry regarding your Pag-IBIG Membership ID number and provide the required information for verification purposes.

FAQs on Pag-IBIG Online Registration 2023
pag-ibig online registration 2023 - faqs

1. What are the Pag-IBIG online application requirements?
There’s no need to submit anything to the Pag-IBIG Fund for your online membership application. The Pag-IBIG Fund doesn't require documents for those who use the Pag-IBIG online registration system.

However, you should have a copy of your birth certificate on hand. You'll refer to this document when filling out the Pag-IBIG membership form online. The personal information (such as birth date, mother's maiden name, etc.) you provide for your Pag-IBIG online registration should match the data on your birth certificate.

2. How can I get my Pag-IBIG registration number online?
Your Pag-IBIG Registration Tracking Number (RTN) will be generated when you complete your Pag-IBIG online registration form. It will be displayed after you click the Submit button. Take a screenshot or print and download the page for your reference.

3. Does having a Pag-IBIG number mean I'm already a member?
No. Completing the Pag-IBIG online registration and being issued a MID number doesn't automatically mean your membership has started. Your actual membership with the Pag-IBIG Fund will begin after you've paid your first monthly contribution.

4. How to create and log in to Pag-IBIG online account?
If you need to avail of a Pag-IBIG service online, like checking your loan or savings records or contributing to MP2, use the Virtual Pag-IBIG portal.

Virtual Pag-IBIG offers three options for creating an online account: through the member's Pag-IBIG Loyalty Card Plus, account activation at the nearest Pag-IBIG branch, and a separate account creation method for OFWs.

5. How to update Pag-IBIG online membership?
You can’t update or correct your Pag-IBIG membership record online. For security purposes, Pag-IBIG requires its members to visit a Pag-IBIG office to request a membership information update. Submit a printed copy of the accomplished Member’s Data Form (MDF).[6]

Final Thoughts
Pag-IBIG online registration in 2023 should be quick and hassle-free. However, if you need help with the online system, you may contact the Pag-IBIG hotline or chat with a customer service agent through the Pag-IBIG Fund website.

Apply for a personal loan through Moneymax

Sources:

[1] Pag-IBIG Fund website
[2] Virtual Pag-IBIG website
[3] Pag-IBIG Membership ID (MID) Number Inquiry
[4] Pag-IBIG Fund Contact Points
[5] Pag-IBIG Official Facebook Page
[6] Pag-IBIG Member's Data Form
Venus Zoleta
VENUS ZOLETA
Venus has almost 20 years of combined experience in content marketing, SEO, corporate communications, and public relations. Most of her career was spent creating informative articles on personal finance and digital marketing. She also invests in stocks, mutual funds, VUL, and Pag-IBIG MP2. Venus graduated cum laude with a Journalism degree from the University of the Philippines Diliman. A hardcore Hallyu Tita, she loves bingeing Korean shows on Netflix while bonding with her cats. Follow Venus on LinkedIn.

 Back to Blog
Related articles
LTO Transactions Made Easier: How to Use the LTMS Portal
Government Transactions
LTO Transactions Made Easier: How to Use the LTMS Portal
January 19, 2024
Register Your Vehicle ASAP: No Registration, No Travel Policy
Government Transactions
Register Your Vehicle ASAP: No Registration, No Travel Policy
January 18, 2024
A Newbie Driver's Guide to LTO Student Permit Requirements
Government Transactions
A Newbie Driver's Guide to LTO Student Permit Requirements
January 3, 2024
Get the latest articles, promos, and deals straight to your inbox. Make us your weekly habit!

moneymax-logo-white
Car Insurance
Compare Car Insurance Policies
Top Car Insurance Companies
Malayan Car Insurance
OONA Car Insurance (formerly MAPFRE)
PGA Car Insurance
FPG Car Insurance
Mercantile Car Insurance
Stronghold Car Insurance
SGI Philippines
Standard Insurance
Car Insurance Prices 2023
Toyota Car Insurance
Mitsubishi Car Insurance
Honda Car Insurance
Ford Car Insurance
Nissan Car Insurance
Hyundai Car Insurance
Credit Cards
Compare Credit Cards
Easiest Credit Cards to Get
No Annual Fee Credit Cards
Credit Cards for Beginners
Best Credit Cards in 2024
Cashback Credit Cards
Rewards Credit Cards
Travel Credit Cards
UnionBank Credit Cards
Metrobank Credit Cards
HSBC Credit Cards
Security Bank Credit Cards
BPI Credit Cards
EastWest Bank Credit Cards
Personal Loans
Compare Personal Loans
Best Personal Loans in 2023
UnionBank Personal Loan
UNO Digital Bank Personal Loan
Metrobank Personal Loan
Tonik Big Loan
BPI Personal Loan
Equicom Personal Loan
SB Finance Personal Loan
Sterling Bank of Asia Personal Loan
RCBC Personal Loan
More
Why Choose Moneymax?
Best Travel Insurance Providers
Best Fire Insurance Providers
All Providers
Rewards FAQs
Credit Cards Articles
Loans Articles
Insurance Articles
Asset Management Articles
Money Management Articles
Investments Articles
Government Services Articles
Lifestyle Articles
News & Opinion Articles
Privacy Policy
Corporate Governance
Terms & Conditions
DISCLAIMER: Moneymax strives to keep its article information accurate and up to date. The information you read may be different from what you see when you visit a partner, provider, or financial institution’s website. All information we publish is presented without warranty and may change over time. If you find discrepancies or outdated information, please contact Moneymax directly.

 

With the exception of any articles published in partnership with named providers, opinions expressed in our articles are the author's alone, not those of any product provider, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of the providers.

 

© Moneyguru Philippines Corporation. All rights reserved with its registered address at 6th floor, ACT Tower, H.V. Dela Costa, Salcedo Village, Makati City. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy.

