STEPS ON SELECTIVE TRANSLATION

Steps: 

1. Click the compass button “My Social and Collaborative Apps” then click “Copy & Artwork Management”.

2. Click Product Lines under Product Line and then click the Brand name.

3. Go to the level where the POA is present.

4. Click “Categories” then “Copy and Artwork” then select “POAs” tab.

5. Mark the checkbox of the POA you are going to do the selective translation then click “Edit POAs” button. 

6. Edit POAs window will appear, select the language/s of the copy element to skip or include.

7. Click “Add/Remove Local Copy” then new window will appear at the right side, then skip or include language/s and click “Save” button.

8. The language/s will now be reflected in the selected Copy Elements.
 

 
STEPS ON BRAND HIERARCHY CREATION

Steps:

1. Click the icon plus at the upper right side of the window and select “Create Product Line”. (To create Brand level)

2. Create New Product Line window will appear, mark the checkbox on “Auto name” for the system to automatically create the unique name of the Level you are going to create then enter the Type, Marketing Name, Marketing Text and Description then click “Done” button to save.

3. A message prompt will appear, click “Ok”.

4. Click the compass button “My Social and Collaborative Apps” then click “Copy & Artwork Management”

5. Click Product Lines under Product Line and click Create button

6. Mark the checkbox on “Auto name” for the system to automatically create the unique name of the Level you are going to create then enter the Type, Marketing Name, Marketing Text and Description then click “Done” button to save.

7. Then, the brand you created will display under Product Lines.

8. After creating the Brand, go to the brand level and click “Categories” (To create Product Line or Product Master under Brand)

9. Click “Product Hierarchy Work Place” then mark the checkbox of the object/level where you are to setup the new product line or product master then click “Actions”

10. “Create Product Line…” to create Sub brand, Commercial Variant and Segment Level, “Create Product…” to create Product Master Level.

11. Enter Hierarchy Details:For Sub Brand, Commercial Variant and Segment Level:Mark the checkbox on “Auto name” for the system to automatically create the unique name of the Level you are going to create then enter the Type, Marketing Name, Marketing Text and Description then click “Done” button to save.For Product Master Level: Enter Description, Marketing Name and Marketing Text then click “Done” button to save.